# Software-Lab-Project-Uni-Rostock

This project is about the Visualization and characterization of marine animal trajectories. The Animals, Seals, were tracked with GPS devices and information relating to their location such as longitude and latitudes over time recorded. Parameters such as trajectories, mean speed, straightness index, Sinuosity and Fractal Dimension are of interest. Totally, 27 Seals were tracked but this analysis is done on 4 seals (G17, G20, S11, & S12) selected based on tracking duration. Longer durations were of interest because they provided more details and hence more meaningful analysis. It is worth mentioning that this report closely follows the work of D. McLean and V. M. Skowron [1] and most of the methods and definitions are unedited while Traja and Trajr documentations were also consulted. The First part of the Project is focused on cleaning the Data with python and plotting Trajectories with with Traja a python Package developed by Justin Shenk and Rüdiger Busche

# Languages 
### python
### R
# Packages
### [Traja package](https://cran.rstudio.com/web/packages/trajr/vignettes/trajr-vignette.html)
The traja Python package is a toolkit for the numerical characterization and analysis of the trajectories of moving animals. Trajectory analysis is applicable in fields as diverse as optimal foraging theory, migration, and behavioral mimicry (e.g. for verifying similarities in locomotion). A trajectory is simply a record of the path followed by a moving animal. Traja operates on trajectories in the form of a series of locations (as x, y coordinates) with times. Trajectories may be obtained by any method which provides this information, including manual tracking, radio telemetry, GPS tracking, and motion tracking from videos.
The goal of this package (and this document) is to aid biological researchers, who may not have extensive experience with Python, to analyze trajectories without being handicapped by a limited knowledge of Python or programming. However, a basic understanding of Python is useful.
### [Trajr Package](https://pypi.org/project/traja/) 
The trajr R package is a toolkit for the numerical characterisation and analysis of the trajectories of moving animals. Trajectory analysis is applicable in fields as diverse as optimal foraging theory, migration, and behavioural mimicry (e.g. for verifying similarities in locomotion). A trajectory is simply a record of the path followed by a moving animal. Trajr operates on trajectories in the form of a series of locations (as x, y coordinates) with times. Trajectories may be obtained by any method which provides this information, including manual tracking, radio telemetry, GPS tracking, and motion tracking from videos.

The goal of this package (and this document) is to aid biological researchers, who may not have extensive experience with R, to analyse trajectories without being handicapped by a limited knowledge of R or programming. However, a basic understanding of R is required.

Within this document, the plots are generated by running the code examples immediately before them. For that reason, most code examples start with a call to TrajGenerate, which generates a random trajectory to be plotted. These calls would not occur in an analysis of real animal trajectories.

please cite McLean DJ, Skowron Volponi MA. trajr: An R package for characterisation of animal trajectories. Ethology. 2018;00:1–9. https://doi.org/10.1111/eth.12739.
